 ---
title: "Welcome to CS Upleveling"
layout: post
---

## Problem
The number of students who change their major away from computer science is a large issue for universities globally. Computer science maintains the highest drop rate of all majors at a startling 10%. This difficulty can be attributed to numerous factors including (but not limited to): culture and stereotype threat, difficulty of programming, math prerequisites, and intrinsic motivation.

## Solution 
I propose a consolidated “bootcamp” which helps high school and college students prepare for the rigors of pursuing a degree in CS. The course will help students who need it by providing mentorship and guidance with an aim to bolster their CS fundamentals and increase their resilience. Through research, I've found that students perform better when teachers (or mentors) allow some level of autonomy, make the project relevant, and provide positive feedback. A wonderful model I aim to follow can be found here: [An interdisciplinary stem module for middle and early secondary school students](https://stemeducationjournal.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/2196-7822-1-6)

## Partner Organization
My current partner organization is Winthrop University in South Carolina. The project mentor is Professor Stephanie Lawson. Winthrop is a university with a large minority population: 55% of the students are white, 31% of the students are black, and 6% of the students are hispanic. Winthrop students also have a lower high school grade equivalence. Additionally, many of the students work full time jobs to put themselves through school which leaves them with limited time for coursework.  On campus there is a high interest in computer science but a lot of the students who pursue the degree do not actually complete it opting to graduate with a different major.

## Engagement 
Currently, I meet with Professor Lawson on an ad-hoc basis and am scheduled to have further conversations with other faculty at Winthrop. During our meetings I refine requirements and use those to iterate on a better curriculum model that will help Winthrop's issues. 

## Goals and Deliverables
  1. Main Goal: Help students develop intrinsic motivation and resilience
  2. Teach fundamental computer science principles through a project based environment
  3. Teach a bootcamp over summer remotely for Winthrop
  4. Develop or utilize a badging system for students
  5. Help students set up github accounts
  6. Raise funding for technology required

## Success Criteria
 1. All students have setup a github account and have shown their ability to commit high quality code
 2. All students have completed a project that they are passionate about and is relevant to them
 3. Students have received some form of badging to show off their new found skills

## Proposed Technology
Currently, we are looking at the availability of computers through 1-1 programs. I have currently raised over $5k in funding for computing resources if needed. Given that the bootcamp will take place online, I have decided to use: https://replit.com as an online IDE for students. 

## Who I am
My name is [Cody Greco](https://www.linkedin.com/in/cody-j-greco/) and I have over 10 years of experience running large scale engineering and product teams. I have mentored teams in excess of 60 headcount and I have given multiple speaking engagements for professionals looking to get into the data science field. My volunteer experience includes serving as a team lead for both data 4 democracy and NYCares Robotics.
